this is the xc70 and since few man-made
objects are known to be as tough and
durable as a Volvo station wagon we'll
get this part out of the way first yes
it sure is solid and when you're driving
it it's solid to see this is a machine
that's equal parts luxury safety and
capability and whether you're driving it
on a sunny day in Northern Ontario or
through a Swedish mountain pass in a
blizzard with a bunch of snowboards on
the roof Volvo has made sure this xc70
imparts a tremendous sense of comfort
and peace of mind there's a creamy
smooth and firm ride even on rougher
roads it doesn't isolate you you've know
you've hit a bump but you feel a
suspension working to keep the harsh
undesirable sensations out of the cabin
that cabin in the case of the tester was
colored like delicious chocolate
cheesecake and it maintained that solid
substantial feel right down to the
window switches and gear shifter and
turn signal leader and back there's
plenty of space in the cargo hold enough
to no doubt make some shoppers question
the need for a bigger SUV as it tends to
go with all those those seats are likely
the most comfortable ones you'll visit
in the course of your day
the unique design to the instrument
cluster centre stack and controls lend
themselves to a one-of-a-kind luxury
atmosphere and there's ultimately a
simple elegant feel throughout bubble
prides themselves on building some of
the safest machines on the road and this
xc70 works towards that goal of a
variety of features that help drivers
keep up on the goings-on in the world
around them backup camera and parking
radar work fitted and the rear seat
headrests even disappear at a button
press for a better route view the
powerful washer equipped headlights see
the whole lighting assembly turning into
corners for maximum visibility the side
mirrors watching blind spots for you and
there's even a very special safety
system that watches throughout ahead -
they can stop you from getting into an
accident so a demonstrate I've got this
little setup here the camera on the car
thinks that these reflectors are the
back of another vehicles so let's say
I'm driving and I'm completely
distracted I don't do anything
the xc70 will automatically stop hitting
use without my intervention and to add
some drama in case that doesn't work I'm
going to park my most beloved worldly
possession my Dodge Viper right here for
added effect
so the xc70 will break by itself but
it's even more impressive when you get
to working the other pedal that's the t6
it's a three litre straight-six with
turbocharger and it's a real janitor
thing in standard format she makes 300
horsepower but this tester got the
Polestar performance upgrade in a
nutshell you give you a dealer about
fifteen hundred bucks and they'll
reprogram the engine computer with the
pull start software to create and safely
handle more turbo boost power spikes to
325 oranges and torque climbs by 30
pounds b2 it's still very much Volvo
performance even with the extra sauce t6
engine is a liquid smooth torque monster
with a delightful wail tastefully
saturating the cabinet full throttle
even when driven hard with speeds
rocketing upwards at a pretty inducing
rate can ever feel strained or even like
it's working that hard at all of course
there's all wheel drive so there's no
drama in the traction department and
thanks to some extra ride height and
beefier tires the xc70 is that bit more
off-road capable than the v70 station
wagon on which it's based where required
brakes are powerful and durable pedal
feel is fairly precise though handling
as expected with the taller ride height
isn't set up for any extremes of
performance and today this thing is
comfort first of the mischievious dose
of extra power dialed in complaints
nothing major
though the xc70 is a bit heavy on fuel
if you frequently dip into the boost
which I did though highway cruising puts
mileage well under 10 litres per hundred
points which is pretty good so my
favorite thing character the XC 70 is
just full of it they here's a high
capability station wagon that's
exceptionally comfortable understated
powerful and luxurious thanks for
watching